To develop a document classification system that can identify whether a given document is a power of attorney or not, you can follow these steps. I'll guide you through the process using Spacy, a popular and user-friendly NLP library. Spacy is well-suited for this task due to its efficiency and ease of use.

Step 1: Environment Setup
First, ensure you have Spacy installed. If not, install it using pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install spacy
You'll also need to download the language model best suited for your text. Since your documents are in Lithuanian, you'll need a model that supports Lithuanian (if available) or a multilingual model.

bash
Copy code
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm  # Example for English
Step 2: Data Preparation
Prepare a dataset of documents labeled as either "power of attorney" or "not power of attorney." This dataset is crucial for training your model.

Data Format: Your data should be in a format that includes the document text and its corresponding label.
Data Size: The more data you have, the better the model will perform, especially for complex classification tasks.
Step 3: Text Preprocessing
Process your text data to make it suitable for training. This can include:

Tokenization: Splitting text into words or tokens.
Normalization: Converting tokens to lower case, removing punctuation, etc.
Removing Stop Words: Optional, but can help in focusing on relevant words.
Lemmatization: Reducing words to their base or root form.
Spacy can handle most of these preprocessing steps efficiently.

Step 4: Feature Extraction
Convert your text data into numerical features that can be used to train a machine learning model. In NLP, this often involves transforming text into a bag-of-words, TF-IDF vectors, or using word embeddings.

Step 5: Model Training
Select a machine learning algorithm for classification. For a start, you can use algorithms like Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, or even neural networks.

Spacy offers an easy way to train text classification models, or you can use other libraries like Scikit-Learn.

Step 6: Model Evaluation
Evaluate your model's performance using metrics like accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. This step will help you understand how well your model is performing.

Step 7: Integration with Your Application
Once the model is trained and evaluated, integrate it with your FastAPI application. The application should be able to pass the OCR-processed text to this model and receive a classification result.

Step 8: Testing and Iteration
Test the entire workflow from document upload, OCR processing, to classification. Iterate over your model and preprocessing steps based on the performance and feedback.

Resources and Learning
Since you're new to NLP, it would be beneficial to start with basic tutorials and gradually move to more complex topics. Here are some recommended resources:

Spacy Documentation: For understanding Spacy's features and capabilities.
Machine Learning with Text (Scikit-Learn): To understand basic text classification techniques.
Online Courses: Websites like Coursera, Udemy, or DataCamp offer courses on NLP and machine learning.
Remember, NLP and machine learning are vast fields, and it's normal to feel overwhelmed initially. Start small, experiment with basic examples, and gradually move to more complex tasks.